---
layout: page
title: Practical workshop on Large-Scale Genomic Data Analyses - GWAS in structured populations
---

In this workshop, through a combination of lectures and hands-on exercises, we will guide students and researchers on the basics of microarray and next generation sequencing data, their quality control, the implementation of genome-wide association studies (GWAS), and the challenges that remain in such studies especially regarding issues of conducting GWAS in structured populations and transferring GWAS statistics between populations. The existing UK Biobank and the upcoming Mexico Biobank will serve as case studies throughout the workshop, which along with teaching theoretical underpinnings, will be grounded in real world research projects and challenges. For more information click the logo at the top of this page.

## Lesson: NGS – from fastq to variant annotation

In this lesson we will learn about high-throughput (next generation) sequencing techniques as well as how to analyse the data generated by these technologies to the identify and quantify genetic variants. 

#### Wednesday November 28th, 2018
#### Instructors: Dr. Chiara Batini and Dr. Selene Fernandez-Valverde 

### Syllabus

1. Introduction to transcriptomics and massive sequencing techniques. 
	* [Lecture](SLIDES/Mx_Biobank_NGS_Techniques.pdf)
2. Quality control of high-throughput sequencing data.
	* [Practical](01-quality.html)
3. Read alignment.
	* [Presentación](SLIDES/Mx_Biobank_NGS_Mapping.pdf)
	* [Practical](02-mapping.html)
